Now one thing I noticed is that I accidentally removed my margin here at the top because I set margin
to auto,
well of course you can fix that by adding 1rem here on the margin, to top and bottom actually and
then auto to left and right.
That's a quick thing and that's not the main thing I want to focus on here,
instead what I want to focus on is how we get new posts from the post create component to the post list
component here.
Right now, we get this chain of property and event binding,
we're emitting a new post here and we're passing it to the parent component and then we're passing it
down to the post list component
and this clearly works but I guess you can imagine that in bigger and bigger applications, this becomes
more and more cumbersome because you've got longer and longer chains of property and event binding to
get an element from component A to B to C to D to E
and that's not really what you want to build typically.
So it would be nice if we had an easier way of passing data around
or an alternative at least
and such an alternative which we will use quite a bit throughout the course for other things too is a service.
A service is a class which you add to your angular application, which you let inject by angular into components,
I'll come back to what inject means and which is able to centralize some tasks and provide easy access
to data from within different components without property and event binding.
I will create a posts service in the posts folder by creating a new file posts.service.ts and
that name is up to you
but the convention is to name it .service.ts.
Now a service is just a typescript class, so I export a class posts service, just like that.
Now in there, I want to store a list of posts so I'll add posts and set the type to post array.
Now for this I need to import my post model, so I import post from ./post model like that and this array
initially is empty, let's say,
you could also set it to undefined but I'll set it to empty.
Now here, I actually want to turn this into a private property which means you can't edit it from outside,
I do this by adding private in front of posts.
Now this posts service if we add it to another file can't access posts,
instead I will create a new method,
get posts which allows someone who's interested to retrieve the posts.
So in here, I will return this post, I can do this because now I'm accessing the post from inside but
I actually don't want to return the original array because as you might know, arrays and objects in javascript
and also in typescript are reference types and if you don't know what reference types and primitives
are, an article and a video I created can be found in the last lecture of this module, it's really useful
for understanding this, essentially a reference type is a type where if you copy it you don't really
copy it,
the object in memory will stay the same,
you just copied the address, so the pointer pointing at that object.
So to make a true copy of the posts, I will use a typescript and next gen javascript feature called the spread
operator,
I add square brackets to create a new array and then three dots to take all the elements of another
array,
the posts array here, pull them out of that array and add them to this new array.
So I'm creating a new array with the old objects and therefore this array has been copied. Important,
not the objects,
these are still the old objects but at least the array is copied,
so if I now edit this array, if I add new elements or remove elements from within another component,
this will not work,
this will not affect my original array here.
But that's a little bonus, you don't have to do that but it's a good practice to do that, to try to be immutable,
be clear about the fact that you don't want people to directly edit this post array
and with that we get a get posts method. Getting posts is nice but posting them would also be nice,
right,
so I will also add an add post method where I expect to get a post as an argument.
You could also just get a title and some content and then construct the post here, whatever you prefer,
I will do the latter so I will create a new post here. The post is of type post and it's a javascript
object which has to have you know, a title because that's defined in our post model and I will store
the title there and a content property into which I will store the content argument
and now we can reach out to our post here or to our posts array and push that new post into it. Now
if we do that, we added this post and now we get methods for getting all posts and for adding a new post.
Now we could use that from both the post list component and the post create component without having
to pass data around with property and event binding. For this
we just need to get this service into these components and this is done with a feature called
dependency injection.
Now this means that you simply go to the component where you want to use that,
let's say to the post list component and you add a constructor.
You do this with the constructor keyword, constructor is simply as a function which is called whenever
angular creates a new instance of this component
and here you can expect arguments but since angular is the one creating new instances of the component,
angular has to give you these arguments and angular has a complex dependency injection system which
is able to actually find out what you wanted and indeed give you that.
So here what you do is you define the service you want to have and I simply add an argument with any
name you want,
I'll name it posts service though because that is what I want to have
and now you have to define the type here to give angular a hint about what it actually should
give you.
So here I'll set the type to posts service and I need to import this,
so I'll go up there and import posts service from posts.service, like that. Now this will actually tell
angular hey I want to have a posts service instance because you set the type and angular will try its best
to give you an instance of this service.
However I also want to store this in a property of my class here, so I can add a new property here which
I can also name posts service which is of type posts
service and is empty at the beginning and then here, we can set this posts service equal to the posts service instance
I'm getting here. Now this is a bit of a cumbersome, typescript offers a shortcut for this, we
can omit all that code and actually get the exact same result by adding a keyword in front of posts service,
the public keyword will automatically create a new property in this component and store the incoming
value in that property.
Now that's all nice and angular will try to fulfill this requirement but actually, it won't be aware of
the posts service because it doesn't scan all your files. So you have to make angular aware and there
are two ways of doing that,
you can go to app module and add the posts service there, not in declarations and not in imports but
in the providers array, providers are for services.
There you could simply add posts service and also add the import pointing to that file
and then this would allow angular to find that that service. Now that's option number one
and there's nothing wrong with it,
you can also take an even easier route and go to the posts service and add an argument to it, @injectable
which is imported from @angular/core,
don't forget the parentheses and there
you don't have to but you can pass a javascript object to configure this and you can then set provided
in and set this to a string named root or with the content of root and make sure to not mistype,
root is important
and this simply will do the same,
it provides this on the root level and this not only means that angular finds this,
this also means and the same was true if you added it to providers that angular doesn't only find it but
that it will only create one instance of the service for the entire app.
So wherever you inject this, you're going to use the same instance and this is really important because
since we manage our posts array in the service, having multiple instances would be bad because we would
have multiple copies with different arrays in there.
Now we have one and the same instance and we got it injected into post list and there we got our posts
service,
now all we need to do is call get posts. Let's do that and wire up the rest in the next lectures.